README.md, before:


# WORLD HAPPINESS REPORT

# !(C:\Users\balla\OneDrive\Documents\CapStoneProject_2025\images\image1.jpeg)


This project aims to provide an in-depth analysis of the happiness rates of countries around the world between 2020 and 2024.


## Dataset Content
* Datasets are taken from Kaggle. The data is prepared by Gallup World Poll and Global Survey Research.

There are 5 csv files for the years 2020-2024



| Column Name                 | Description                                                           |
|-----------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Country name                 | Name of the Country                                                   |
| Happiness Rank              | The ranking of thecountry based on the happiness score                |
| HAppiness score             | The happiness scpre of the country (likely between 1 and 10)          |
| Upperwhisker                | Upper bound of the confidence interval                                |
| Lowerwhisker                | Lower bound of the confidence interval.                               |
| Economy(GDP per Capita)     | GDP per capita (a measure of economic prosperty)                      |
| Social Support              | Level of social support (e.g. relationships with family and friends.) |
| Health life expectancy      | Expectednumber of healthy life years.                                 |
| Freedom to make life choices| Freedom to make personal life choices.                                |
|  Generosity                 | Generosity level(based on donations and willingness to help others)   |
|  PErceptions of corruption  | Perceived level of corruption in the country                          |
|   Year                      | The year to which the data belongs.                                   |




## Business Requirements
* Describe your business requirements
 

## Hypothesis and how to validate?
* List here your project hypothesis(es) and how you envision validating it (them) 

## Project Plan
* Outline the high-level steps taken for the analysis.
* How was the data managed throughout the collection, processing, analysis and interpretation steps?
* Why did you choose the research methodologies you used?

## The rationale to map the business requirements to the Data Visualisations
* List your business requirements and a rationale to map them to the Data Visualisations

## Analysis techniques used
* List the data analysis methods used and explain limitations or alternative approaches.
* How did you structure the data analysis techniques. Justify your response.
* Did the data limit you, and did you use an alternative approach to meet these challenges?
* How did you use generative AI tools to help with ideation, design thinking and code optimisation?

## Ethical considerations
* Were there any data privacy, bias or fairness issues with the data?
* How did you overcome any legal or societal issues?

## Dashboard Design
* List all dashboard pages and their content, either blocks of information or widgets, like buttons, checkboxes, images, or any other item that your dashboard library supports.
* Later, during the project development, you may revisit your dashboard plan to update a given feature (for example, at the beginning of the project you were confident you would use a given plot to display an insight but subsequently you used another plot type).
* How were data insights communicated to technical and non-technical audiences?
* Explain how the dashboard was designed to communicate complex data insights to different audiences. 

## Unfixed Bugs
* Please mention unfixed bugs and why they were not fixed. This section should include shortcomings of the frameworks or technologies used. Although time can be a significant variable to consider, paucity of time and difficulty understanding implementation are not valid reasons to leave bugs unfixed.
* Did you recognise gaps in your knowledge, and how did you address them?
* If applicable, include evidence of feedback received (from peers or instructors) and how it improved your approach or understanding.

## Development Roadmap
* What challenges did you face, and what strategies were used to overcome these challenges?
* What new skills or tools do you plan to learn next based on your project experience? 

## Deployment
### Heroku

* The App live link is: https://YOUR_APP_NAME.herokuapp.com/ 
* Set the runtime.txt Python version to a [Heroku-20](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/python-support#supported-runtimes) stack currently supported version.
* The project was deployed to Heroku using the following steps.

1. Log in to Heroku and create an App
2. From the Deploy tab, select GitHub as the deployment method.
3. Select your repository name and click Search. Once it is found, click Connect.
4. Select the branch you want to deploy, then click Deploy Branch.
5. The deployment process should happen smoothly if all deployment files are fully functional. Click now the button Open App on the top of the page to access your App.
6. If the slug size is too large then add large files not required for the app to the .slugignore file.


## Main Data Analysis Libraries
* Here you should list the libraries you used in the project and provide an example(s) of how you used these libraries.


## Credits 

* In this section, you need to reference where you got your content, media and extra help from. It is common practice to use code from other repositories and tutorials, however, it is important to be very specific about these sources to avoid plagiarism. 
* You can break the credits section up into Content and Media, depending on what you have included in your project. 

### Content 

- The text for the Home page was taken from Wikipedia Article A
- Instructions on how to implement form validation on the Sign-Up page was taken from [Specific YouTube Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/)
- The icons in the footer were taken from [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/)

### Media

- The photos used on the home and sign-up page are from This Open-Source site
- The images used for the gallery page were taken from this other open-source site



## Acknowledgements (optional)
* Thank the people who provided support through this project.


[def]: C:\Users\balla\OneDrive\Documents\CapStoneProject_2025\images\image1.jpeg

Commit message:

Enhance README with image formatting, detailed project description, and business requirements for World Happiness Report analysis

README.md, after:


# WORLD HAPPINESS REPORT

![alt text goes here](images/image1.jpeg)


This project aims to provide an in-depth analysis of the happiness rates of countries around the world between 2020 and 2024 and  analyze the key factors influencing happiness levels across different countries and provide insights for policymakers, economists, and social scientists.


## Dataset Content
* Datasets are taken from Kaggle. The data is prepared by Gallup World Poll and Global Survey Research.

There are 5 csv files for the years 2020-2024.  They Have  eleven columns . Combined all csv files and added year column.



| Column Name                 | Description                                                           |
|-----------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Country name                | Name of the Country                                                   |
| Happiness Rank              | The ranking of thecountry based on the happiness score                |
| HAppiness score             | The happiness scpre of the country (likely between 1 and 10)          |
| Upperwhisker                | Upper bound of the confidence interval                                |
| Lowerwhisker                | Lower bound of the confidence interval.                               |
| Economy(GDP per Capita)     | GDP per capita (a measure of economic prosperty)                      |
| Social Support              | Level of social support (e.g. relationships with family and friends.) |
| Health life expectancy      | Expectednumber of healthy life years.                                 |
| Freedom to make life choices| Freedom to make personal life choices.                                |
| Generosity                  | Generosity level(based on donations and willingness to help others)   |
| PErceptions of corruption   | Perceived level of corruption in the country                          |
| Year                        | The year to which the data belongs.                                   |




## Business Requirements
*  The business requirements should focus on understanding the factors that influence happiness scores and analyzing differences between countries. 

 ✅ Identify Key Factors Affecting Happiness

Determine which economic and social factors have the most significant impact on happiness levels.
Analyze the influence of GDP, social support, health, freedom, generosity, and corruption perceptions.
Compare countries with the highest and lowest happiness scores to understand the differences.

✅ Analyze Happiness Trends Over Time

Examine how happiness scores have changed between 2020 and 2024.
Assess the impact of global events, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, on happiness levels.

✅ Visualize Country Comparisons

Identify the happiest and least happy countries and evaluate geographic and economic influences.
Segment countries by continent or income level to detect patterns.

✅ Provide Data-Driven Policy Recommendations

Suggest policies that could improve happiness levels based on data insights.
Measure the impact of economic growth on happiness and propose strategies to enhance well-being.

## Hypothesis and how to validate?
* List here your project hypothesis(es) and how you envision validating it (them) 

## Project Plan
* Outline the high-level steps taken for the analysis.
* How was the data managed throughout the collection, processing, analysis and interpretation steps?
* Why did you choose the research methodologies you used?

## The rationale to map the business requirements to the Data Visualisations
* List your business requirements and a rationale to map them to the Data Visualisations

## Analysis techniques used
* List the data analysis methods used and explain limitations or alternative approaches.
* How did you structure the data analysis techniques. Justify your response.
* Did the data limit you, and did you use an alternative approach to meet these challenges?
* How did you use generative AI tools to help with ideation, design thinking and code optimisation?

## Ethical considerations
* Were there any data privacy, bias or fairness issues with the data?
* How did you overcome any legal or societal issues?

## Dashboard Design
* List all dashboard pages and their content, either blocks of information or widgets, like buttons, checkboxes, images, or any other item that your dashboard library supports.
* Later, during the project development, you may revisit your dashboard plan to update a given feature (for example, at the beginning of the project you were confident you would use a given plot to display an insight but subsequently you used another plot type).
* How were data insights communicated to technical and non-technical audiences?
* Explain how the dashboard was designed to communicate complex data insights to different audiences. 

## Unfixed Bugs
* Please mention unfixed bugs and why they were not fixed. This section should include shortcomings of the frameworks or technologies used. Although time can be a significant variable to consider, paucity of time and difficulty understanding implementation are not valid reasons to leave bugs unfixed.
* Did you recognise gaps in your knowledge, and how did you address them?
* If applicable, include evidence of feedback received (from peers or instructors) and how it improved your approach or understanding.

## Development Roadmap
* What challenges did you face, and what strategies were used to overcome these challenges?
* What new skills or tools do you plan to learn next based on your project experience? 

## Deployment
### Heroku

* The App live link is: https://YOUR_APP_NAME.herokuapp.com/ 
* Set the runtime.txt Python version to a [Heroku-20](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/python-support#supported-runtimes) stack currently supported version.
* The project was deployed to Heroku using the following steps.

1. Log in to Heroku and create an App
2. From the Deploy tab, select GitHub as the deployment method.
3. Select your repository name and click Search. Once it is found, click Connect.
4. Select the branch you want to deploy, then click Deploy Branch.
5. The deployment process should happen smoothly if all deployment files are fully functional. Click now the button Open App on the top of the page to access your App.
6. If the slug size is too large then add large files not required for the app to the .slugignore file.


## Main Data Analysis Libraries
* Here you should list the libraries you used in the project and provide an example(s) of how you used these libraries.


## Credits 

* In this section, you need to reference where you got your content, media and extra help from. It is common practice to use code from other repositories and tutorials, however, it is important to be very specific about these sources to avoid plagiarism. 
* You can break the credits section up into Content and Media, depending on what you have included in your project. 

### Content 

- The text for the Home page was taken from Wikipedia Article A
- Instructions on how to implement form validation on the Sign-Up page was taken from [Specific YouTube Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/)
- The icons in the footer were taken from [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/)

### Media

- The photos used on the home and sign-up page are from This Open-Source site
- The images used for the gallery page were taken from this other open-source site



## Acknowledgements (optional)
* Thank the people who provided support through this project.


[def]: C:\Users\balla\OneDrive\Documents\CapStoneProject_2025\images\image1.jpeg
